In the last few years, a lot more machine
learning teams have been talking about
comparing the machine learning
systems to human level performance.
Why is this?
I think there are two main reasons.
First is that because of
advances in deep learning,
machine learning algorithms
are suddenly working much better and so
it has become much more feasible in a lot
of application areas for machine learning
algorithms to actually become competitive
with human-level performance.
Second, it turns out that
the workflow of designing and
building a machine learning system,
the workflow is much more efficient
when you're trying to do
something that humans can also do.
So in those settings, it becomes
natural to talk about comparing, or
trying to mimic human-level performance.
Let's see a couple examples
of what this means.
I've seen on a lot of machine learning
tasks that as you work on a problem over
time, so the x-axis, time, this could
be many months or even many years
over which some team or some research
community is working on a problem.
Progress tends to be relatively rapid as
you approach human level performance.
But then after a while, the algorithm
surpasses human-level performance and
then progress and
accuracy actually slows down.
And maybe it keeps getting better but
after surpassing human level performance
it can still get better, but performance,
the slope of how rapid the accuracy's
going up, often that slows down.
And the hope is it achieves some
theoretical optimum level of performance.
And over time,
as you keep training the algorithm,
maybe bigger and
bigger models on more and more data,
the performance approaches but
never surpasses some theoretical limit,
which is called the Bayes optimal error.
So Bayes optimal error,
think of this as the best possible error.
And that's just the way for
any function mapping from x to y to
surpass a certain level of accuracy.
So for example, for speech recognition,
if x is audio clips, some audio is just so
noisy it is impossible to tell what
is in the correct transcription.
So the perfect error may not be 100%.
Or for cat recognition.
Maybe some images are so blurry,
that it is just impossible for
anyone or anything to tell whether or
not there's a cat in that picture.
So, the perfect level of
accuracy may not be 100%.
And Bayes optimal error, or Bayesian
optimal error, or sometimes Bayes error
for short, is the very best theoretical
function for mapping from x to y.
That can never be surpassed.
So it should be no surprise that this
purple line, no matter how many years you
work on a problem you can never surpass
Bayes error, Bayes optimal error.
And it turns out that
progress is often quite fast
until you surpass human level performance.
And it sometimes slows down after
you surpass human level performance.
And I think there are two reasons for
that, for why progress often slows down
when you surpass human level performance.
One reason is that human
level performance is for
many tasks not that far
from Bayes' optimal error.
People are very good at looking at
images and telling if there's a cat or
listening to audio and transcribing it.
So, by the time you surpass human level
performance maybe there's not that much
head room to still improve.
But the second reason is that so long as
your performance is worse than human level
performance, then there are actually
certain tools you could use to improve
performance that are harder to use once
you've surpassed human level performance.
So here's what I mean.
For tasks that humans are quite good at,
and
this includes looking at pictures and
recognizing things, or listening to audio,
or reading language, really natural data
tasks humans tend to be very good at.
For tasks that humans are good at, so
long as your machine learning algorithm is
still worse than the human,
you can get labeled data from humans.
That is you can ask people, ask higher
humans, to label examples for you so
that you can have more data to
feed your learning algorithm.
Something we'll talk about next
week is manual error analysis.
But so long as humans are still performing
better than any other algorithm, you can
ask people to look at examples that your
algorithm's getting wrong, and try to gain
insight in terms of why a person got it
right but the algorithm got it wrong.
And we'll see next week that this helps
improve your algorithm's performance.
And you can also get a better
analysis of bias and
variance which we'll talk
about in a little bit.
But so long as your algorithm
is still doing worse then humans
you have these important tactics for
improving your algorithm.
Whereas once your algorithm
is doing better than humans,
then these three tactics
are harder to apply.
So, this is maybe another reason why
comparing to human level performance
is helpful,
especially on tasks that humans do well.
And why machine learning
algorithms tend to be really good
at trying to replicate tasks that
people can do and kind of catch up and
maybe slightly surpass
human level performance.
In particular, even though you know what
is bias and what is variance it turns out
that knowing how well humans can do on
a task can help you understand better how
much you should try to reduce bias and how
much you should try to reduce variance.
I want to show you an example
of this in the next video.